List + before -; rm old Git ref; reformat. (#30543)
grafana/grafana: contribute/style-guides/documentation-style-guide.md

This style guide applies to all documentation created for Grafana products.

> For information about how to write technical documentation, refer to [Google Technical Writing courses](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing), the [Divio documentation system](https://documentation.divio.com/) site, and the [Vue writing principles](https://v3.vuejs.org/guide/contributing/writing-guide.html#principles).

Reviewer: Since these are now combined, I suggest converting the links to an unordered list.

## Spelling

To catch common misspellings, the [codespell](https://github.com/codespell-project/codespell) tool is run for every change.

## Inclusive language

Avoid using charged language.

### Allowing and blocking

When referring to _allowing_ or _blocking_ content or traffic, use a form of _allow_ or _block_:

- (noun) _allowlist_ or _blocklist_
- (verb) _allow_ or _block_

Example: _To **allow** outgoing traffic, add the IP to the **allowlist**._

Avoid _whitelist_ or _blacklist_.

### Primary and secondary

To describe relationships between nodes or processes, there are several options:

- Use _primary_, _main_, or _parent_, instead of _master_.
- Use _secondary_, _replica_, or _child_, instead of _slave_.

Avoid _master_ or _slave_.

## Grafana-specific style

The following guidelines are specific to Grafana documentation. For the most part, these are *guidelines* are not rigid rules. If you have questions, ask in the #docs channel of Grafana Slack.

### General

> - Use active voice. Avoid passive voice:

Reviewer: The period makes more sense here.

Author: Can you use the suggestion button so I can just click it. I agree with you. :)

Author: ```suggestion
- Use active voice. Avoid passive voice.
```

>   - Use active: Grafana displays the heatmap visualization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Active: Grafana displays the heatmap visualization.
```

>   - Avoid passive: The heatmap visualization is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Passive: The heatmap visualization is displayed.
```

- Write directly to the reader:
  - Use: "After you create a dashboard, you can add a panel to it."
  - Avoid: "After you create a dashboard, it is possible to add a panel to it."
- Write in the imperative second person:
  - "Click the panel."
  - "Close the window."
- Write in present tense:
  - Use: "The panel opens."
  - Avoid: "The panel will open."
- Do not use an ampersand (&) as an abbreviation for _and_.
  - **Exceptions:** If an ampersand is used in the Grafana UI, then match the UI.
- Avoid using internal jargon or slang.
- Do not use two spaces after a period; use one space after a sentence.
- Remove any extra space characters at the end of a paragraph.

> - Aim for your sentences to be fewer than 25 words; break up long sentences into smaller complete phrases or change the format, such as using a list.

Author: ```suggestion
- Aim for your sentences to be fewer than 25 words. Instead, use smaller complete phrases or change the format, such as using a list.
```

> - Aim for paragraphs to be three sentences or fewer; break up long paragraphs by making the text more concise and using more headings.

Author: ```suggestion
- Aim for paragraphs to be three sentences or fewer. Make the text more concise, use more headings, or both.
```

## Spelling

To catch common misspellings, the [codespell](https://github.com/codespell-project/codespell) tool is run for every change.

## Inclusive language

Avoid using charged language.

### Allowing and blocking

When referring to _allowing_ or _blocking_ content or traffic, use a form of _allow_ or _block_:

- (noun) _allowlist_ or _blocklist_
- (verb) _allow_ or _block_

Example: _To **allow** outgoing traffic, add the IP to the **allowlist**._

Avoid _whitelist_ or _blacklist_.

### Primary and secondary

To describe relationships between nodes or processes, there are several options:

- Use _primary_, _main_, or _parent_, instead of _master_.
- Use _secondary_, _replica_, or _child_, instead of _slave_.

Avoid _master_ or _slave_.

## Grafana-specific style

The following guidelines are specific to Grafana documentation. For the most part, these are *guidelines* are not rigid rules. If you have questions, ask in the #docs channel of Grafana Slack.

### General

> - Use active voice. Avoid passive voice.

Author: ```suggestion
- Use active voice:
```
